The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
Cats walk on their toes.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
Most cats adore sardines.
A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.
Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.
A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
Cats have supersonic hearing
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.
Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.
In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
